Liquid-Phase/Plastics/PE/HDPE/README.md, before:

# PE kinetic Mechanisms

In this folder are present the CHEMKIN format files.
They are divided by the kinetic mechanism prepared:
The folders are labelled polymer_Nspecies_Nreactions. For instance HDPE_42_500 
is the folder of the mechanism with 42 species and 500 reactions.
The mechanism proposed are:
- HDPE_120_2500 the updated published mechanism (10.1016/j.wasman.2022.11.028)
- HDPE_120_3200 the updated published mechanism (10.1016/j.wasman.2022.11.028) 
   but compatible with chemkin pro bugs (e.g. max 260 characters, duplicates
   recognized only if there are less than 6 reactants, etc)
- HDPE_42_500 a further lumped version for low computational cost


With respect to the published mechanism, the improvements are:
- better agreement with ethylene formation
- a species representative of the crystalline part is introduced
- stable short chain species are formed directly in gas-phase, while for longer
   compounds able to evaporate evaporation reactions are introduced (see 
   10.1016/j.jaap.2023.105960)
- thermochemistry evaluated with group contributions and van Krevelen phase-change
   data. The difference in enthalpy between gas and liquid species is the 
   evaporation enthalpy, above the critical temperature liquid species share
   the thermodynamic properties of gas-species
- transport properties are evaluated with a simplified approach based on critical
   properties (see RMG mit)

In each folder are present the standard CHEMKIN files (gas kinetics, liquid kinetics, 
thermodynamics, transport) and a sub-folder of LiquidProperties.
The latter is required by OpenSMOKE but reports only FAKE liquid properties of
all the chemical species included in the mechanism. These are required for the 
1D microgravity model available in OpenSMOKE, but they have not yet been addressed 
for polymers outside of 0D systems.  
 
The starting polymer at room temperature is described by the species
P-CnH2n-P_S and P-CnH2n-P which represent the crystalline and amorphous polymer
If the simulation starts above the melting point (130�C), the polymer is 
described only by P-CnH2n-P

Commit message:

Updates readme solid, surface, liquid
Reorganized the readme files and internal links.

Liquid-Phase/Plastics/PE/HDPE/README.md, after:

# HDPE kinetic Mechanisms

In this folder are present the CHEMKIN format files.
They are divided by the kinetic mechanism prepared:
The folders are labelled polymer_Nspecies_Nreactions. For instance HDPE_42_500 
is the folder of the mechanism with 42 species and 500 reactions.
The mechanism proposed are:
- [HDPE_120_2500](HDPE_120_2500) the updated published mechanism cantera and 
    opensmoke compatible [(Locaspi et al. (2022))](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.wasman.2022.11.028)
- [HDPE_120_3200](HDPE_120_3200) the published mechanism compatible with 
    chemkin pro bugs (e.g. max 260 characters, duplicates recognized only if 
    there are less than 6 reactants, etc)
- [HDPE_42_500](HDPE_42_500) a further lumped version with lower computational cost.

To cite the Kinetic Mechanism refer to the following publications:
- **Locaspi, Andrea et al.** "Towards a lumped approach for solid plastic waste gasification: Polyethylene and polypropylene pyrolysis." Waste Management 156 (2023): 107-117 [DOI](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.wasman.2022.11.028)
  
## Mechanism description

The starting polymer at room temperature is described by the species
P-CnH2n-P_S and P-CnH2n-P which represent the crystalline and amorphous polymer
If the simulation starts above the melting point (130C), the polymer is 
described only by P-CnH2n-P.

With respect to the published mechanism, the improvements are:
- better agreement with ethylene formation
- a species representative of the crystalline part is introduced
- stable short chain species are formed directly in gas-phase, while for longer
   compounds able to evaporate evaporation reactions are introduced, see [Locaspi et al. (2023)](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jaap.2023.105960)  
- thermochemistry evaluated with group contributions and van Krevelen phase-change
   data. The difference in enthalpy between gas and liquid species is the 
   evaporation enthalpy, above the critical temperature liquid species share
   the thermodynamic properties of gas-species. Manuscript in preparation
- transport properties are evaluated with a simplified approach based on critical
   properties, see [Holley et al. (2009)](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.proci.2008.05.067).

In each folder are present the standard CHEMKIN files (gas kinetics, liquid kinetics, 
thermodynamics, transport) and a sub-folder of LiquidProperties.
The latter is required by OpenSMOKE but reports only *FAKE* liquid properties of
all the chemical species included in the mechanism. These are required for the 
1D microgravity model available in OpenSMOKE, but they have not yet been addressed 
for polymers outside of 0D systems.
